Title: Doctor Karl

----

Date: 2014-12-27

----

Cover: karl.jpg

----

Leading: Karl made his TV debut in 1985 as the presenter of the first series of Quantum. Since 1986 he has reported science on the Midday Show, Good Morning Australia (including a full-time stint in 1991-2 as the TV Weatherman and science reporter), the Today Show and Sunrise. Along side his fellow geek Adam Spencer, he has written and co-produced two series of Sleek Geeks for ABC TV.

----

Article: 

What's doing, bitches!

NASA rejected Karl as non-astronaut material so he walked into ABC Radio station Double J and offered to talk about the Space shuttle launch instead.  They said ‘Okay’[^1] and his radio career took off like a rocket.  ‘Great Moments In Science’ ran on Double J from 1981, while Karl moonlighted as a medical student.

Since then, his media career has exploded to include TV, books, newspapers, magazines, scripting, professional speaking, and of course, the Net.

Karl made his TV debut in 1985 as the presenter of the first series of Quantum. Since 1986 he has reported science on the Midday Show, Good Morning Australia (including a full-time stint in 1991-2 as the TV Weatherman and science reporter), the Today Show and Sunrise. Along side his fellow geek Adam Spencer, he has written and co-produced two series of Sleek Geeks for ABC TV.

Karl talks science on ABC radio stations across Australia and, on the BBC, for several hours each week.  The original talk back programme still runs each Thursday on JJJ from 11am to midday.

In 2012 Karl was delighted to have Asteroid 18412 named after him. Asteroid Dr Karl/18412 was discovered by Robert H. McNaught, on June 13, 1993 at the Siding Spring Observatory in Coonabarabran, New South Wales, Australia.

Karl has degrees in Physics and Maths, Biomedical Engineering, Medicine and Surgery and has worked as a physicist, tutor, taxi driver, film-maker, car mechanic, labourer, and as a medical doctor.

He is the author of 36 popular science books, with more on the way.

Dr Karl is currently the Julius Sumner Miller Fellow at the University of Sydney.

[^1]: Colloquial